imagine being able to enjoy your music
precisely the way it was first recorded
imagine the ultimate studio experience
but in your home that aspiration is now
a reality kef LS 50 anniversary model a
legend reborn in the ultimate mini
monitor continuing a 50-year legacy of
innovation celebrating kevs original
collaboration with the BBC using blade
technologies and beyond the LS 50 packs
a colossal soundstage into our most
compact design bringing out detail and
richness you never thought possible kef
LS 50 professional sound for the home
for decades ago the BBC worked with
keffe on the legendary ls3 5 a studio
speaker because calf was a pioneer in
new technology in the same spirit the LS
50 pushes the boundaries of innovation
using pioneering technologies from blade
and more still an engineer's loudspeaker
the LS 50 brings the recording studio
into the home with an unparalleled
richness of sound
the main challenge of developing the LS
50 as the ultimate mini monitor was to
take such a compact package and to get
an accurate spacious sound with all the
excitement of the original performance
the three key technological
breakthroughs in the ls 50 of the
constrained layer damping the curve
baffle and the flexible elliptical
reflex port these combined together to
give a clear and spacious sound the cut
of baffle is shaped so that the sound
waves spread from the drive unit with
minimum reflection from the edges and
that gives a very nice spacious sound
the curvature also improves the rigidity
of the baffle which reduces the
vibration the constrained layer damping
which is between the brace and the
enclosure walls and also the front
baffle prevents the cabinet vibrating
and radiating sown this can otherwise
cause coloration in the mid-range the
port tube has a flexible wall this is to
allow mid-range saying that is traveling
down the port tube to escape back into
the cabinet and prevents longitudinal
resonances these can otherwise radiate
and cause mid-range coloration the port
you also has very carefully flared walls
to avoid the chuffing noises that you
can get when you get air turbulence in
the port tube
to the ls 50 project we were very
fortunate to be able to draw on the
driver technology from the blade to
develop a really special unique you for
the LS 50 the LS 50 high-frequency unit
has got a tangerine waveguide and
optimum dome shape to reduce a spherical
wavefront this together with a Z flex
around gives very wide dispersion
allowing a very spacious sound to be
produced with a wide sweet spot the
stiffened Dome of the high frequency
unit is centrally positioned in the
magnesium aluminium alloy mid-range cone
these diaphragms both move as rigid
Pistons and the break-up control of the
mid-range unit allows an exceptionally
accurate and clean sound in this project
the access we had to the very latest
computing techniques allowed us to spend
a considerable amount of time at the
beginning of the project just exploring
what happens inside loud speaker
enclosure and the different geometries
and materials we could use to make it
perform better we had the finite element
method for modeling the vibration and
the air inside the box the boundary
element method for modeling the
radiation into infinite space and
computational fluid dynamics to look at
the airflow inside the reflex port the
main benefit of this technology was that
it allowed us to evaluate how much
coloration was radiated from the port
and the cabinet walls we could also see
exactly how the cabinet walls vibrated
and the sound pressure varied inside the
enclosure what we're doing now is
completely in the spirit of kev bringing
recordings to life using the latest
technology
an unrivaled legacy of half a century's
innovation means the CAF name is
synonymous with acoustic excellence and
the quest continues with keV leading the
way
you